2D Computer Graphics
2020.0

First assignment: Drawing ellipses, triangles, and polygons
painted with opaque solid colors.
-----------------------------------

Now that we understand the RVG format, we will generate our
first images from vector graphics illustrations. The only
shapes these first examples contain are circles, triangles,
and polygons. The only paints are opaque solid colors.

To simplify the task, we provide a "skeleton" driver
"png.lua" with two functions that you have to implement
yourselves: "accelerate", and "sample".  Naturally, as you
organize your code, these functions may invoke other
functions you implemented as well.

For example, running your modified "png.lua" on an input as
such

    luapp process.lua png triangle.rvg triangle.png

should result in a color image "triangle.png" being created
with an image of the corresponding to the illustration in
"triangle.rvg".

We took care of allocating an image with dimensions from the
viewport, computing the coordinates of the center of each
pixel, invoking your "sample" function for each pixel
center, saving the results in each image pixel, and saving
the image to disk.

You can use your "accelerate" function to traverse the
shapes in the scene (and in later assignments, the paints as
well!) performing the actual transformations and perhaps
changing the representation to help your "sample" function.
Don't forget the window-viewport transformation.  Then,
write the "sample" function so it traverses the
transformed/accelerated scene and returns the color at the
given pixel coordinates.

Take a look at the drivers "svg.lua" and "rvg.lua". These
are drivers that, instead of producing PNG files, produce
SVG and RVG files, respectively. Feel free to investigate
how they operate.

For example, running "svg.lua" on an input as such

    luapp process.lua svg triangle.rvg triangle.svg

should result in an SVG file "triangle.svg" being created
that represents the contents of the illustration in
"triangle.rvg".

We provide an archive containing a PNG image for each
input. These images were generated with our own
implementation of this assignment. Use them as ground truth.
You can also generate SVGs from the RVGs using the driver we
provide.  You can explore these using Inkscape if you want
to see that they contain.

Proceed in the following order.

Start by getting the simple files to work

    triangle1.rvg
    triangle2.rvg
    circle.rvg
    polygon.rvg
    eopolygon.rvg
    quad1.rvg
    icozahedron.rvg
    xformedtriangle.rvg
    xformedcircle.rvg
    windowviewport1.rvg
    windowviewport2.rvg

The inside-outside test for circles, triangles, and polygons
has been covered in class. Take a look at the Mathematica
files if you have any doubts.

As soon as you are done, these larger files should also work

    lion.rvg
    triangulatedlion.rvg
    bunny.rvg
    leopard.rvg

These should take a *significant* amount of time to render.
We will work on speeding up their computation in later
assignments.

Many of the remaining input files contain paths,
transparency, or color gradients. We will learn about them
in the following classes. Please don't worry about them for
now.

To hand in your assignment, rename your "png.lua" to
"<first-name>-<last-name>.lua", where <first-name> is your
first name, and <last-name> is your last name. Send the file
to the TA as an attachment to an e-mail with the subject "[2dcg]
Assignment 1".

Good luck!
